https://insights.blackcoffer.com/what-if-the-creation-is-taking-over-the-creator/ Ranking customer behaviours for business strategy  Human minds, a fascination in itself carrying the potential of tinkering nature with the pixie dust intelligence, creating and solving the mysteries and wonders with anything but admiration. However, no matter how captivating a human mind can be, it could sometimes be appalled. It could be the hunger or maybe the desire to want more, to go beyond and unravel the limitations, or maybe something like pure greed. Humans have never stopped and always keep evolving when it comes to intelligence and this is what makes them the supreme. Intelligence calls out for supremacy and so, what if there was to evolve something that opposed a challenge to the very human minds, to their capabilities while making them question their own importance among themselves? Artificial Intelligence came as a revolution, havoc when it first came to the light. The concept of making machines does work on their own, like granting machines –The Intelligence. The idea of making machines work like humans came back in the 19s. Back then people didn’t believe in such a thing as making a non-living thing work, think, and carry tasks on its own, not to mention, to actually surpass humans themselves in those skills. The facts are it did. By 1997. The greatest chess player, Garry Kasparov was defeated in a chess game by a machine and this is where exactly, a top skilled human lost to a mere machine created by another who by himself could’ve never defeated him. It was a rule of power, of betterment, of skills, and the granted supremacy. Were AI and Machines just tools? Equipment?  Something that helped an unskilled person with his mind and intelligence creates something that could do the skilled work for him with perfection and precision? Well initially it was, however, as time passed as humans got drawn to the puzzle of AI, a lot changed. Human research went deeper and deeper and as a result, the machines evolved with it. At present, AI & Machines is a growing field. As it develops and improves, it has become a part of the industrial revolution. In industries, most of the laborious work that was once taken care of by humans was now replaced by machines. Naturally, with the evolution in machines, its precision, mass productivity, quality control, time efficiencies, and all the other factors made it a better choice. A choice over humans. This led to fear, a fear of a not-so-distant future, a future where maybe machines will be so evolved that they’ll take over the need of a human employee leading to unemployment. With the population increase around the world, it became the new tech threat for the labor market. Then again… how true is it? Does AI really oppose a threat? Will adapting to technology make millions of people lose their jobs? Will it lead to mass unemployment? Will the machines really surpass humans? Will, the creation take over the creator? No matter how fearful the future with AI may seem, in reality, it is not that scary. Truth is AI is the present reality, it is the key that holds the power to unlock a whole next level of human evolution. Technology is growing. There was a time where technology was just an idea, but today that idea has been implemented, it’s working and is carried out. Nobody could stop the advancement and growth of Artificial Intelligence, it’s a wave that is already flowing and we as the present generation and the generations to come to have to learn, to learn to swim in this flow and avoid drowning. Many jobs will be replaced by machines, as AI evolves it’ll keep challenging human minds and their skills. With the present COVID 19 situation, contactless cashiers to robots delivering packages have already taken over the usual routine tasks. The jobs of Secretaries, Schedulers, and book-keeper are at risk too. Manufacturing units, agriculture, food services, retail, transportation & logistic, and hospitality are all a part of the AI-affected automation. At an estimation, it is said that around 20 million jobs, especially including manufacturing will be lost to robots. As AI, robotics, 3D printing, and genetics make their way in, even the architects, medical docs, and music composers feel threatened by technology. Making us question that will AI even edge us out of our brain jobs too? Now that can be terrifying. However, as much as machines will be replacing few jobs, they’ll also be creating new jobs.  With the economic growth, innovation, and investment around 133 million jobs are said to be generated. These newly enhanced jobs are to create benefits and amplify one’s creativity, strategy, and entrepreneurial skills. So what is the catch? Well, it’s the skills. Even though AI is creating 3 times more jobs than it is destroying, it’s the skills that count. AI surged in new job opportunities, opportunities like Senior Data Scientist, Mobile Application Developer, and SEO specialist. These jobs were once never heard of but now with AI it’s born, however, to do these jobs or for its qualification, one needs high-level skills and to acquire those skills can be an expensive and time-consuming task. The future generation might be able to cope up with it but the real struggle is to be faced by the present two generations. It’s the vulnerability between the skill gap and unemployment and the youths are the ones to be crushed the most. Therefore, as the advancement of AI becomes inevitable there remains no choice but to adapt, learn, equip ourselves and grow with it. The companies have to work together to build an AI-ready workplace. They should collaborate with the government, educators, and non-profit organizations and work together to bring out policies that could help understand the technologies’ impacts faster while also providing the employees some security. The economic and business planning should be made considerable for minimizing the impact on local jobs and properly maximizing the opportunities. The employees should be provided with proper tools to carry along with the new opportunities while acquiring AI-based skills for their day-to-day work. New skills should be identified and implemented for the upskilling and continual learning initiatives. Employees will have to maximize their Robotic Quotient and learn core skills. They’ll have to adapt to new working models and understand their roles in the coming future.  Howsoever, it’s not like AI will totally take over control, even though AI proves to be a better choice, it still has its limitations at present. First, it’s expensive, secondly, manufacturing machines in bulk is not good for the environment. Machines are also very high maintenance, therefore human labor will often come cheaper and so will be considered over machines. Underdeveloped countries will find it hard to equip their people with the upskilling and reskilling required for AI workplace and so for AI to play a role in those countries, might take years. AI can also be risky and unethical, as it’s hard to figure out who to be held responsible for in cases where an AI went wrong. No matter, how advanced AI gets, there are some skills where humans will always have an upper hand i.e., soft skills. Skills like teamwork, communication, creativity, and critical thinking are something that AI hasn’t been able to beat us up to yet and so the value of creativity, leadership, and emotional intelligence has increased. Although, with machines coming in between humans causing the lack of human-to-human interaction, the humans seem to fade away a little. With this era, comes the need for good leaders. Leaders who are capable of handling both machines and humans together, the ones who are organized enough to manage the skilled and the unskilled employees while providing the unskilled trainees with proper training. Leaders who hold profound soft skills and encourage teamwork while working along with machines. The ones who are patient, calm, and optimized.   In conclusion, yes AI and machines are going to be very challenging but there’s nothing humans haven’t overcome. Adaptation and up-gradation are going to be the primary factor for survival. As we witness the onset of the 4th industrial revolution, let’s buckle up our seats and race along the highway with the essential fuels (skills) so as to not let ourselves eliminated. After all, this is an unending race with infinity as the end, all we could do is try not to run out of fuel. Try not to be outdated.  Blackcoffer Insights 29: Glady, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences.  https://insights.blackcoffer.com/what-jobs-will-robots-take-from-humans-in-the-future/ Ranking customer behaviours for business strategy  Introduction AI is rapidly evolving in the employment sector, particularly in matters involving business and finance. Finance, management, economics, and accounting are now among the most popular university courses globally; particularly at the graduate level, due to their high employability. However, the evolution of machinery in industries is changing that. According to research, 230,000 jobs in these sectors may be replaced by AI agents in the next 5 years. This is due to the nature of the work, as employees are responsible for tasks such as data analysis and keeping track of numerical information; which machines excel at. Large, complicated data sets can be analyzed faster and more efficiently by AI-powered computers than by people. Algorithmic trading procedures that produce automated deals are less likely to be produced without minute errors when undertaken by humans. In such matters involving industrial work, a subsection of artificial intelligence is used; namely, machine learning.  Machine learning is a term used for the application of artificial intelligence (AI) in systems, which involves them assimilating and processing information by gaining experience. It is mainly concerned with the development of technology and computer programs.  Its improvement process is mainly divided into seven steps; which start with the collection of data. This data can be collected from an internal database or perhaps an IoT structure. The second and most time-consuming step is cleaning, preparing, and rearranging the data; which involves the recognition of outliers, trends, and missing information so that the outcome is as accurate as possible. The third step consists of formatting data; which is useful if you source your information from a variety of sources. Step four is where AI comes into place. Self-service data processing tools may be useful if they provide intelligent services for matching data attributes from distinct databases and intelligently integrating them. The data is then arranged to better represent a specific pattern. Lastly, the data is divided into two sets: one for training the algorithm and one for analysis. There are three types of machine learning; supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning. The most common of the bunch is supervised machine learning; which is based on accurately labeled data. The machine is given a collection of information, including the outcome of the operation. The rest of the information is referred to as ‘input features’, which ‘supervises’ the machine by guiding it to establish the connections between the variants. In the case of unsupervised learning, the machine isn’t given labeled sets of data to be divided into, allowing it to recognize and create its own patterns within the information provided. Since computers have the capabilities of identifying distinguished similarities, this method helps with the classifying of such data. Reinforcement learning comprises experience-based learning. Similar to people, they learn due to a reward and punishment system based on their actions. These variations of system learning have recently been integrated into business and finance, which is elaborated on in the following passages. Machine learning in finance and banking There are many ways in which machine learning is used in finance and banking. The most common place it is used is to detect any frauds. Fraud is the most common problem in financial service companies and it accounts for billions of dollars in misfortune each year. The most common frauds are credit or debit card usage by a stranger, document forgery, and mortgage fraud. Usually, finance companies keep an enormous amount of their data stored online, and it increases the risk of information being accessed without authorization. With expanding innovative headway, misrepresentation in the monetary business is currently viewed as a high danger to significant information. Fraud recognition frameworks in the past were planned dependent on a bunch of rules, which could be effortlessly be bypassed by current fraudsters. Therefore, most companies today leverage machine learning to combat fraudulent financial transactions.  Machine learning works by looking over enormous informational indexes to distinguish unique or suspicious activities for additional examination by security groups. It works by looking at an exchange against other information focuses – like the client’s record history, IP address, area, and so forth.  Depending on the type of exchange taking place, the program can automatically refuse a withdrawal or purchase until the person makes a decision. Examples of fraud detection software used by banks include Feedzai, Data visor, and Teradata Machine learning is also used in algorithmic trading, portfolio management, loan underwriting, chatbots, and improving customer service. Algorithmic trading is an interaction for executing orders using computerized and pre-modified exchanging guidelines to represent factors like value, timing, and volume. An algorithm is a set of directions for solving a problem. Computer calculations send little parts of the full request to the market over the long run. In contrast to human dealers, algorithmic exchanging can investigate enormous volumes of information every day and therefore make thousands of trades every day. Machine learning settles on quick exchanging choices, which gives human traders a benefit over the market normal. Likewise, algorithmic exchanging doesn’t settle on exchanging choices dependent on feelings, which is a typical constraint among human dealers whose judgment might be influenced by feelings or individual desires. The exchanging technique is generally utilized by multifaceted investment administrators and monetary foundations to automate trading activities. In the banking industry, organizations access a large number of shopper information, with which machine learning can be prepared to work in order to simplify the underwriting process. Machine learning calculations can settle on speedy choices on endorsing and credit scoring, and save organizations both time and monetary assets that are utilized by people. Data scientists can train algorithms on how to analyze millions of consumer data to coordinate with information records, search for interesting special cases, and settle on a choice on whether a shopper meets all requirements for an advance or protection. For instance, the calculation can be prepared on the most proficient method to examine shopper information, like age, pay, occupation, and the buyer’s credit conduct. The benefits of machine learning As with any form of revolutionary technology, the usage of machine learning has been debated over as its beneficial properties have been weighed against the possible disadvantages. It’s been observed that upon correct usage, it may be used to solve a wide range of business challenges and anticipate complicated customer behavior. We’ve also seen several of the largest IT conglomerates, such as Google, Amazon, and Microsoft, introduce Cloud Machine Learning platforms. Technology vs Human intelligence In terms of business, ML can aid businesses by identifying consumer’s demands and formulate a pattern based on them; allowing companies to reach out to such consumers and maximize their sales. It eliminates the need for expenses on some maintenance by reducing the risks associated with unexpected breakdowns and minimizes wasteful costs to the firms.  Historical data, a process visualization tool, a flexible analytical environment, and a feedback loop may all be used to build an ML architecture. The input of data is another agitating chore for businesses in the present, which is where machine learning can step in for manual labor. This eradicates the possibility of errors caused by manual labor causing disruptions and provides employees with extra time to handle other tasks. In the financial sector, machine learning is already utilized for portfolio management, algorithmic trading, loan underwriting, and fraud detection. Chatbots and other conversational interfaces for security, customer support, and sentiment analysis will be among the future uses of ML in banking. Another aspect of business involving artificial intelligence includes image recognition, which entails a system or program that recognizes objects, people, places, and movements in photos. It identifies photographs using an imaging system and machine recognition tech with artificial intelligence and programmed algorithms. The downfalls of machine learning With all the benefits of its advancement, machine learning isn’t the most perfect thing. There are several disadvantages which are information acquisition, time and resources and high errors, and wrong interpretations. One of the major hurdles is the amount of finance needed to invest in machine learning for it to be a successful project. More issues have to do with the fact that AI requires gigantic informational indexes to train on, and these ought to be unbiased, and of good quality. There can likewise be times where they have to wait for that new information to be produced. Machine learning needs sufficient opportunity to do the calculations to learn and adequately to satisfy their accuracy and relevancy. It also needs huge resources to work. This can mean extra requirements for the computer to work. Another significant problem is the capacity to precisely decipher the results produced by the calculations. You should likewise cautiously pick the algorithms to get the wanted results. Conclusion There have been various reports in the past and current years which claim that a significant piece of the human labor force will be replaced via robots and machines in the years to come. With excessive innovative work being led in the field of computerized reasoning, many dread that a significant job crisis will unfurl since numerous positions are all the more precisely and productively performed with the use of machines. In countries like Japan, mainly computer programs and AI is used in the secondary and tertiary sectors. From cleaning the house to depositing money in banks, everything is done by AI. However, AI cannot replace humans in the future. Humans have several capabilities which, even after several technological advancements a machine would not be able to have. These capabilities include creative thinking and creative problem solving, and human connection. For example, when a child goes to a doctor to get an injection, a nurse always relaxes the child to not be afraid of the needle. A machine’s touch would not be able to soothe a child. Another example could be how humans tend to share things with each other and be open about it, a machine will not be able to do so since it is only programmed to things it has been told to do. Like computers, AI will not replace us but would however complement us to make daily work easier and less time-consuming. Without humans themselves, there is no future for AI. Blackcoffer Insights 29: Amara Arora and Vaanya Kaushal, Scottish High International School 